# Distributed Storage and Shared Memory
 
 * Storage abstractions provided by distributed processes
 * Here: simplified model, where Pi = E (E = the set of Clients), no distinction between processes and clients.
Designated processes act as writing or reading clients
 
 Main abstraction: a shared Read-/Write-Register
    Operations:
        read () -> v
        write (v) -> ACK
    Sequential impl:
        state:
            value initially null
        function read()
            return val
        function write(v)
            val <- v
            return ack
    Sequential implementation not interesting
    Async implementation is interesting:
    what should be returned for read() if read starts after first write, and before start of second write, but ends between start and end of second write?

    Module register (r):
    Events: <r, Read>
            <r, ReadResp | v> (acknowledgement that reading suceeded)
            <r, Write> | v>
            <r, WriteResp> (acknowledgement that writing suceeded)
    
    Liveness: every operation eventually returns a response
    Safety: Every read op returns the value written by the last write operation,  if no concurrent operation

    Operations:
        every operation modeled by two events:
        * invocations event
        * completion event

        Definitions: 
        * Operation o1 **precedes** operation o2 if o1 completes before o2 is invoked.
        * Operations o1 and o2 are **sequential** if o1 precedes o2 or vice versa
        * Operations o1 and o2 are **concurrent** if they are not sequential
    
    Register domain:
        * binary register: {0, 1}
        * multivalue register: many values
    Register types:
        * (1, 1) -> 1 writer, 1 reader / single reader swingle writer register (SRSW reg.)
        * (1, N) -> 1 writer, N readers / MRSW reg.
        * (N, N) -> N writers, N readers / MRMR reg.

    Semantics:
        * Safe register: A read() not concurrent with a write, returns the value written by the most recent write() operation
        * unsafe register:
            Implement a multi-valued register (mvr) from many binary registers 
            domein D = [0, 11]
            4 binary registers (br 0, ... br 3)
            notation: br-0.write
    mvr:
        state:
        br-0, ..., br-3 all 0

        function mvr.write(v)
            (b3b2b1b0)_2 <- v
            for i between 0 and 3
                br-i.write(bi)
            return ACK
        
        function mvr.read()
            for i between 0 and 3
                vi <- br-i.read()
            return (v2v2v1v0)_2
        
        If a read happens while writing, the wrong value gets returned
    
    regular semantics:
        only single-writer registers
        Safety: A read() not concurrent with a write returns the most recently written value. Otherwise read() returns the most recently written value or the concurrently written value

    atomic semantics:
        safety: A read() not concurrent with a write returns the most recently written value. If read() -> v and a subsequent read()->w, then write(v) preceds write(w) or write(v) is concurrent with write(w)

## Impl. (1, N) regular register(rr) in fail-silent-model
(regular semantics has to hold)
Majority-voting

state:
    val
    ts
    wts <- 0 //writer only (ts = timestamp)

function rr.write(v)
    wts <- wts + 1
    send msg [WRITE, wts, v] to all Pi
    wait for msg [WRITE ACK] from > N/2 processes
    return ACK

function rr.read()
    send msg [READ] to all in Pi
    wait for msg [READ, ts', val'] from > N/2 processes
    let v be the value val' among the received pairs with the highest timestamp
    return v

upon receive msg. [WRITE, ts', v] from w do
    (val, ts) <- (v,ts')
    send msg. [WRITE ACK] to w

upon receive msg [READ] from r do
    send msg [READVAL, ts, val] to r    

